# BeatDrop

A music-centrique social media platform that allows both casual music listeners and music enthusiasts to share songs, albums, and playlists with other users. For those who want to discover new music, BeatDrop lets you see what your friends recommend while also serving as an individual catalog of your own musical taste over time. Our application utilizes Spotify’s web API to connect each user’s Spotify account to their profile. Not only does this allow for the embedded sharing of songs and personalized playlists, but also for artists to expand their fanbase on Spotify. We’ve also taken advantage of Spotify’s follow button widget to allow users to easily connect with others without having to leave the BeatDrop platform.

## Tech Stack
Our tech stack includes Firebase, React, Redux, and Material-UI.
Firebase is used for the backend, where our data is stored in Cloud Firestore. This data is updated in real-time when items are added to our database collections, which include comments, likes, posts, and users. For example, you can visit the users collection to view all of BeatDrop’s current users and their credentials. These fields are then dynamically updated when a given user edits their profile. We used Firebase Cloud Functions to write certain functions for our application, which is essentially NodeJS code that is executed on demand. We used Firebase Authentication to register users, log them in and retrieve authentication tokens. Finally, we used Cloud Storage servers to store profile images that are submitted by our users. We chose Firebase because it offers many services that we wanted to use. We also have group members that have had previous experience with Firebase and are comfortable working with it. 
Our front-end library of choice is React. We chose to use React because it is a great library for building component-based web applications. We also wanted to complement it with react-router-dom, axios, and a couple other libraries to make React feel like a complete framework. Some of our group members have worked with React in the past, making it a natural choice. Overall, React is a great library for building components, templates for our pages, and dynamic markup for our application pages.
We used Redux to manage the application-wide state, which holds the data needed for the React-application. Redux allows all the components in our application to separately fetch and send data. We also downloaded the Redux Dev-Tools chrome extension, which made it easy for us to see what was happening in our application during development, what data we have, what errors we have, etc.
Finally, we used Material-UI, a reputable React implementation of Google’s Material Design. It is essentially a CSS framework that defines standards for designing user interfaces. Material-UI also has extensive documentation that made it easy to learn how to use and implement it.

# Reflection
One of the main issues that we encountered during development was correctly setting up user authentication. This involved using Firebase Authentication to handle email and password based authentication. Initially, all of our users were showing up as unauthorized, which led to issues in displaying profile information, notifications, and usernames for each post. We spent a long time troubleshooting the error, but the problem ended up being a disconnect between some of the variables we used in our react-application and our Cloud Functions.
There are a few areas of improvement that we would like to make in the future. Firstly, we would like to add the ability to attach tags to posts, allowing users to search posts by keywords. Secondly, we did not have enough time to make the user interface as detailed and modern as we envisioned in the mockup because we spent the majority of our time setting up the backend and creating our React components for the application. Moving forward, we would want to spend more time editing the styles for the web interface.
Regardless, we were able to implement most of the features that we originally planned to, and each group members’ knowledge of Firebase and React was greatly expanded. Overall, we are very proud of the product that managed to create.
